**FOR VISUAL GUIDANCE PLEASE SEE: GreenhouseFrameSketches.pdf and finished product images in https://github.com/Aidenbolos/Green-Sense/tree/master/Images/Greenhouse%20Frame

I realize the frame sketches are very rudimentary, so I have made these instructions for further clarity.
Originally, this frame was made on-the-fly in a shop, which is why there was never "original" plans.

All of the material used was carbon-steel. Although aluminum/other metals could work as well.

All of the metal was cut using an angle grinder, welded using a MIG welder (gas shielded), welds flattened with a right-angle die grinder, and finish prepped with sandpaper and files.

If you refer to GreenhouseFrameSketches.pdf, take note of the "outer dimensions" as these are the approx. the dimensions of the finished product. Use these as you go along to ensure fit and finish.

Step 1:
The base of the frame is made of 1/2" angle iron. It is a 9" x 7" rectangle with 90 degree angles.
Cut 2 pieces 7" long, and 2 pieces 9" long with opposing 45 degree angles on the ends.
Fit the adjoining pieces/angles together to form the 90 degree corners.
Ensure all pieces are square and laying flat then weld together.

Step 2:
We then add the 4 "uprights" onto the base frame. Again these are made from 1/2" angle iron.
They are 6" on their short side, and 6.5" on their long side. This is because one end is finished in a 45 degree angle to accommodate the roof slope.
Cut 2 pieces with a left-facing angle and 2 pieces with a right-facing angle.
Ensure these are square and level before welding onto each corner of the base frame. Ensure the angle faces the correct direction as shown in the diagram.

Step 3:
Next we will make the trusses (x2). These are made from 1/2" flat bar.
They have a 45 degree angles on each side and are 4.25" long from the base of one angle to the tip of the other (refer to diagram for clarification).
Cut 4 pieces like this. Join the pieces together to form a 90 degree corner.
Ensure the pieces are square and laying flat then weld together.

Step 4:
Once they are done, we line up the slope/angle of the trusses with the angle on top of the uprights.
These pieces will fit just between the 2 uprights on the 7" side.
This forms the triangle or "truss" of the roof.
Ensure both sides/angles line up flush, and that the truss is flush with the side of the house then weld together.

Step 5:
Next we will make the roof flaps (x2). These are made from 1/2" flat bar as well.
These will be 9" x 5" rectangles with 90 degree angles.
Cut 2 pieces 5" long, and 2 pieces 9" long with opposing 45 degree angles on the ends.
Fit the adjoining pieces/angles together to form the 90 degree corners.
Ensure all pieces are square and laying flat then weld together.

Step 6:
Next we will cut a pieces of piano hinge just shorter than the roof flap, around 8".
We will then weld the piano hinge onto the first roof flap. Ensuring it lines up squarely and has even gap on either side.
Next line up the second roof flap on the other side of the hinge.
Ensure it lines up squarely and has even gap on either side, then weld it on.
Now you should have hinged/articulating roof panels.

Step 7:
At this point you weld some small tabs/90 degree brackets onto one side of roof trusses.
There should be 2 of them - one on each roof truss of the same-angled side (please see images for clarification).
They should be placed around the middle of its length and flush with the top of the bar.
These tabs will be used later to secure the roof onto the main greenhouse frame.
This will make one side of the roof fixed and the other side able to open/close.
